Khartoum, Sudan (CNN)Sudan's military chief and the prime minister he overthrew last month have reached a deal for the reinstatement of the premier and the release of jailed political detainees, mediators said Sunday. Ousted Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok met with Sudan's military chief and President of the ruling Sovereign Council General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan into the early hours of Sunday, forming a political agreement that will see Hamdok reinstated as prime minister of the transitional government of Sudan. The deal also includes the release of political detainees who were jailed following the October 25 coup, according to Mudawi Ibrahim, a prominent official in the National Forces Initiative, which helped mediate the talks. Al-Burhan and Hamdok agreed that the latter would be reinstated as prime minister of the transitional government, which was first established following the ousting of former strongman and President Omar al-Bashir in 2019. They also agreed to revise the previous power-sharing agreement through a politically-mandated process that will still involve power-sharing by civilian and military leadership, but will include as-of-yet unspecified restructuring, according to Ibrahim. Ibrahim said Hamdok's agreement with Al-Burhan includes the following measures: Gen. Burhan would restore the Council of Ministers which was dissolved following the October 25 coup.Political detainees jailed after the takeover (including government, politicians and protesters) would be released.A unified army would be created.A committee is to be formed to investigate protests following the October 25 coup.Sudan's constitution would be amended to include new articles to specifically outline the partnership between civilians and the military in the transitional government. An official announcement is expected Sunday, after the signing of the agreed articles and a new political declaration. Hamdok, who was placed under house arrest following the coup in late October, has since been released, according to a source within the National Forces Initiative. An eyewitness said security forces surrounding Hamdok's residence since last month have now withdrawn, but his personal guard remains in place.  The deal has been met with resistance in Sudan. In reaction to the reports, the Darfur Lawyer's Association on Sunday said, "there is no bargaining again" and "the solution starts with holding Al-Burhan accountable for the crimes committed since October 25, 2021," according to their statement. "The Association assures that any initiative or bargaining for a settlement between yesterday's parties to bring Hamdok or others (like him) back in to power will 'not bring any result' when the demands and rights of the people of Sudan are not met," the statement said. The deal was rejected by Sudan's Forces of Freedom and Change coalition (FCC), which said on Sunday there is "no negotiation, no partnership, nor legitimacy for the coup plotters." They also said the crimes of the regime -- from dissolving the constitution to causing repression of and violence against the people -- must be brought to trial in order that justice be met. The FCC outlined further allegations against the military in its statements, to which the military has not directly responded. "We have nothing to do in any agreement with this brutal gang, and we are working with all peaceful means to bring this (gang) down, working with all the forces of the revolution, professional groups, resistance committees, and all the honorable people," the FCC statement said. The statement closed by calling for a "new and glorious revolution," that will "tighten the noose on those behind the coup, and lead to their downfall." The Sudan Doctors Syndicate (SDS) also rebuffed news of the political agreement reached by Sudan's military and Hamdok. "News is circulating about an initiative that is being announced in which a political settlement is being announced," the SDS said in a statement. The SDS added: "Whether it is true or not, we, the Sudan Doctors Legitimate Syndicate declare: #no_reconciliation #no_settlement #no_partnership The blood of the martyrs still irrigates the streets and has not dried up #Revolution is a people's revolution." Sudan descended into a crisis last month, after the military dissolved the country's power-sharing government and declared a state of emergency. The move sparked protests and condemnation of the military. 