(CNN)Rana Reider, a prominent track and field coach, is being investigated for alleged sexual misconduct by the US Center for SafeSport, after complaints were made against him, his attorney tells CNN on Wednesday. Reider's attorney, Ryan Stevens, said that SafeSport has recently assigned an investigator "to perform interviews and other work," regarding the complaints. Stevens also said that his client has not received a notice of allegations or any evidence from the agency. "The motives and timing of the alleged claims have not been vetted or investigated yet, but they need to be," Stevens said in a statement. SafeSport, which oversees sexual misconduct and other abuse allegations within the US Olympic and Paralympic community, said in a statement, "The United States Center for SafeSport does not comment on matters to protect the integrity of the investigative process." Reider has coached notable athletes such as Christian Taylor, Andre De Grasse, Tianna Bartoletta, Dafne Schippers, Adam Gemili and Daryll Neita. Following the allegations against the coach, British Athletics told its athletes to cease all dealings with him. "As part of UK Athletics commitment to ensuring appropriate conduct is consistent across all areas without any exceptions, we completed additional due diligence where issues have been raised about the support personnel of UK athletes," British Athletics said in a statement. "Following information from the US Center for SafeSport that multiple complaints of sexual misconduct have been made against coach Rana Reider and that an investigation in the US is imminent, UK Athletics has informed UK athletes currently being coached by him to cease all association until the conclusion of this process." Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videos USA Track and Field said in a statement: "USATF has a zero tolerance policy against all forms of misconduct. As with all instances of allegations, we will continue to cooperate with and support the U.S. Center for SafeSport in its important work. "USATF strongly believes in a culture of safe sport, promoting respect, and preventing abuse, bullying, and harassment to create a healthy environment for athletes to safely train and compete." 