(CNN Business)If your Tuesday morning started out with internet connectivity problems, it's not just you. Comcast customers in various areas across the United States, including parts of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Illinois, reported outages early Tuesday with their Xfinity internet service. Outage tracking service Downdetector recorded more than 52,000 outage reports around 9 a.m. ET, with most complaining of a "total blackout" of service. In response to one tweet Tuesday morning, the company's verified Xfinity Support Twitter account acknowledged "widespread interruptions to the XFINITY Services," which it said was "due to unforeseen circumstances." In response to another tweet, the account said: "We are currently having connection concerns around the nation, our network team is working hard toward a resolution." Some users reported issues connecting to Xfinity's status center webpage, which shows where issues might be occurring. "Some customers are experiencing intermittent service interruptions as a result of a network issue," a tweet from the Xfinity account sent around 11 a.m. ET read. "Our teams are actively working to bring impacted customers back online, as we continue to investigate. We apologize to those who have been affected." Around noon, the company confirmed in a statement to CNN Business that an earlier network issue had caused "intermittent service disruptions" for some customers. "We have addressed the issue and service is now restoring for impacted customers, as we continue to investigate the root cause," a Comcast spokesperson said. The spike in outage reports lasted for the better part of an hour before tapering off. By around 9:30 a.m. ET, the number of reports on Downdetector had fallen to just over 20,000 and some users on Twitter were reporting that their internet had been restored, or that they'd at least been able to access Xfinity's support page to see when their service was expected to resume. By 11 a.m. ET, there were only around 3,000 outage reports on Downdetector. 