Glasgow, Scotland (CNN)This is the official draft of the COP26 Glasgow Agreement that has been published on Wednesday. Read CNN's analysis of the text here. Draft COP decision proposed by the President The Conference of the Parties, Emphasizing the importance of multilateralism and the Convention, and the crucial role of international cooperation in addressing climate change and its impacts, Acknowledging the devastating impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and the importance of ensuring a sustainable, resilient and inclusive global recovery, showing solidarity particularly with developing country Parties, Recognizing the important advances made through the UNFCCC multilateral process since 1994, including in the context of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, Expressing appreciation to the Heads of State and Government who participated in the World Leaders Summit in Glasgow and for the increased targets and actions announced and the commitments made to work together and with non-Party stakeholders to accelerate action in key sectors by 2030, noting that some Parties chose to endorse the Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use and the Breakthrough Agenda, Recognizing the important role of civil society, including youth and indigenous peoples, in addressing and responding to climate change, and highlighting the urgent need for action, Also recognizing the global interlinked crises of climate change and biodiversity loss, and the critical role of nature-based solutions and ecosystem-based approaches in delivering benefits for climate adaptation and mitigation,I. Science 1. Recognizes the importance of the best available science for effective climate action and policymaking; 2. Welcomes the contribution of Working Group I to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report and looks forward to the related forthcoming Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports; 3. Expresses alarm and concern that human activities have caused around 1.1 °C of global warming to date and that impacts are already being felt in every region; 4. Stresses the urgency of increased ambition and action in relation to mitigation, adaptation and finance in this critical decade to address gaps between current efforts and pathways in pursuit of the ultimate objective of the Convention and its long-term global goal;  II. Adaptation 5. Notes with serious concern the finding from the contribution of Working Group I to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report that every additional increment of global warming worsens climate and weather extremes and their impacts on people and nature; 6. Recognizes that adaptation needs will continue to increase with the severity of impacts in line with rising temperatures; 7. Emphasizes the urgency of scaling up action and support to enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change in line with science and the priorities and needs of developing country Parties; 8. Welcomes the national adaptation plans submitted to date, which enhance implementation and understanding of adaptation actions, and urges Parties to further integrate adaptation into local, national and regional planning; 9. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty-seventh session (November 2022) the findings from the contribution of Working Group II to its Sixth Assessment Report relevant to assessing adaptation needs and calls upon the research community to further the understanding of global and local impacts of climate change, response options and adaptation needs;  III. Adaptation finance 10. Notes with serious concern that the current provision of climate finance for adaptation is insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country Parties; 11. Urges developed country Parties to urgently scale-up their provision of climate finance for adaptation so as to respond to the needs of developing country Parties; 12. Calls upon the private sector, multilateral development banks and other financial institutions to enhance finance mobilization in order to deliver the scale of resources needed to achieve climate plans, particularly for adaptation, and encourages Parties to continue to explore innovative approaches and instruments for mobilizing finance for adaptation from private sources; 13. Welcomes recent commitments made by many developed country Parties to increase their provision of climate finance to support adaptation in developing country Parties in response to their growing needs; 14. Also welcomes the contributions [of USD 413 million] to the Least Developed Countries Fund, which significantly exceed its mobilization target and represent significant progress compared with previous efforts;  IV. Mitigation 15. Reaffirms the long-term global goal to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels; 16. Recognizes that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature increase of 1.5 °C compared to 2 °C and resolves to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C, recognizing that this requires meaningful and effective action by all Parties in this critical decade on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge; 17. Also recognizes that limiting global warming to 1.5 °C by 2100 requires rapid, deep and sustained reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including reducing global carbon dioxide emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid-century; 18. Invites Parties to consider further opportunities to reduce non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions; 19. Calls upon Parties to accelerate the phasing out of coal and subsidies for fossil fuels; 20. Emphasizes the critical importance of nature-based solutions and ecosystem-based approaches, including protecting and restoring forests, in reducing emissions, enhancing removals and protecting biodiversity;  V. Finance, technology transfer and capacity-building for mitigation and adaptation 21. Emphasizes the need for finance from all sources to be mobilized to the level needed to achieve the objective of the Convention, including significantly enhanced support for developing country Parties beyond the USD 100 billion per year climate finance mobilization goal; 22. Acknowledges the growing need of developing country Parties, in particular due to the increasing impacts of climate change and increased indebtedness as a consequence of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, and calls for greater support to be channelled through grants and other highly concessional forms of finance; 23. Notes with regret that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation has not yet been met; 24. Welcomes, in this context, the increased commitments made by developed country Parties to scale up financial resources in support of developing country Parties with regards to both mitigation and adaptation and with the aim of meeting the USD 100 billion goal by 2023 at the latest and urges developed country Parties to accelerate efforts to meet the goal sooner; 25. Acknowledges the Climate Finance Delivery Plan: Meeting the USD 100 Billion Goal presented by developed country Parties and the collective actions contained therein; 26. Emphasizes the importance of transparency in the implementation of the achievement of the USD 100 billion goal from 2020 to 2025 and the collective actions contained in the Climate Finance Delivery Plan: Meeting the USD 100 Billion Goal [Placeholder for outcome of ongoing discussions under COP 8(a) long-term climate finance]; 27. Also emphasizes the challenges faced by many developing country Parties in accessing finance and encourages further efforts to enhance access to finance, including by the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism; 28. Notes the specific concerns raised with regard to eligibility and ability to access concessional forms of climate finance and re-emphasizes the importance of the provision of scaled-up financial resources, taking into account the needs of developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change; 29. Encourages relevant multilateral institutions to consider how vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change could be reflected in the provision and mobilization of concessional financial resources; 30. Urges the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, multilateral development banks and other financial institutions to further scale-up investments in climate action and calls for continued increase in the scale and effectiveness of climate finance from all sources globally; 31. Welcomes the first report on the determination of needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement and the fourth biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows by the Standing Committee on Finance; 32. Acknowledges the progress made on capacity-building, particularly in relation to enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity-building activities towards the implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement; 33. Recognizes the need to continue supporting developing country Parties in identifying and addressing both current and emerging capacity-building gaps and needs, and to catalyze climate action and solutions to respond; 34. Emphasizes the importance of technology development and transfer for the implementation of mitigation and adaptation action, and the importance of predictable, sustainable and adequate funding for the Technology Mechanism;  VI. Loss and damage 35. I that climate change has already and will increasingly cause loss and damage and, as temperatures rise, impacts from climate and weather extremes, as well as slow onset events, will pose an ever-greater social, economic and environmental threat; 36. Reiterates the urgency of scaling up action and support, including finance, technology transfer and capacity-building, for implementing approaches for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change; 37. Urges developed country Parties, operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, United Nations and intergovernmental organizations and other bilateral and multilateral institutions, including non-governmental organizations and private sources, to provide enhanced and additional support for activities addressing loss and damage associated with climate change impacts; 38. Recognizes the importance of technical assistance in building capacity to implement approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage; 39. Welcomes the further operationalization of the Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including the agreement on its functions and process for further developing its institutional arrangements; 40. Acknowledges the important role of a broad range of stakeholders at the local, national and regional levels, including indigenous peoples, in averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage; 41. [Placeholder: Outcomes of Ministerial consultations]  VII. Implementation 42. Recalls that the round tables among Parties and non-Party stakeholders on pre-2020 implementation and ambition held in 2018, 2019 and 2020 helped to highlight and enhance understanding of the efforts of and challenges faced by Parties in relation to action and support in the pre-2020 period, as well as of the work of the constituted bodies in that period; 43. Strongly urges all Parties that have not yet done so to meet any outstanding pledges under the Convention as soon as possible; 44. Welcomes the action taken to unlock the potential for sectoral action to contribute to fulfilling and implementing national targets, particularly in emission-intensive sectors; 45. Reconfirms the need to take into consideration the concerns of Parties with economies most affected by the impacts of response measures, particularly developing country Parties, in line with Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 10, of the Convention; 46. Recognizes the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring ecosystems to deliver crucial services, including acting as net carbon sinks, reducing vulnerability to climate change impacts and supporting sustainable livelihoods, including for indigenous peoples and local communities; 47. Encourages Parties to take an integrated approach to addressing those issues in national and local policy and planning decisions; 48. Recognizes the need to ensure a just transition towards a low-carbon future and the creation of decent work and quality jobs;VIII. Collaboration 49. Recognizes the importance of international collaboration on innovative climate action, including technological advancement across all actors of society, sectors and regions, in contributing to progress towards the objective of the Convention and the goals of the Paris Agreement; 50. Recalls Article 3, paragraph 5, of the Convention and the importance of cooperation to address climate change and support sustainable economic growth and development; 51. Also recognizes the important role of non-Party stakeholders, including civil society, indigenous peoples, youth and other stakeholders in contributing to progress towards the objective of the Convention and the goals of the Paris Agreement; 52. Encourages continued and strengthened collaboration between Parties and non-Party stakeholders; 53. Welcomes the improvement of the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action for enhancing ambition; 54. Commends the high-level champions for their leadership and actions to date to facilitate the scaling up and introduction of new and strengthened voluntary efforts by nonParty stakeholders; 55. Acknowledges the work of the secretariat engaging with non-Party stakeholders and improving the Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action platform to also support accountability and track progress of voluntary initiatives; 56. Welcomes the informal summary reports by the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice on the Ocean and climate change dialogue to consider how to strengthen adaptation and mitigation action, and the Dialogue on the relationship between land and climate change adaptation related matters; 57. Requests the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to consider how to enhance action on land and climate change under existing UNFCCC processes, and to prepare an informal summary report to be made available to the Conference of the Parties at a future session; 58. Recognizes that the report on the ocean and climate change dialogue referred to in paragraph 56 above highlighted the need for an integrated approach to strengthen oceanbased action and climate change under the UNFCCC; 59. Invites the relevant constituted bodies under the UNFCCC to consider how to integrate and strengthen ocean-based action in their existing mandates and workplans, and to report on these activities within the existing reporting processes, as appropriate; 60. Also invites the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to hold an annual dialogue, starting at [the fifty-sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (June 2022)], to strengthen ocean-based action, and to prepare a summary report to be made available to the Conference of the Parties at its subsequent session; 61. Underscores the importance of Action for Climate Empowerment, recognizing its critical role in the effective and sustainable implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement; 62. Urges Parties to swiftly begin implementing the Glasgow Work Programme on Action for Climate Empowerment, taking into consideration human rights and gender; 63. Expresses appreciation for the outcomes of the sixteenth Conference of Youth, organized by the constituency of children and youth non-governmental organizations and held in Glasgow in November 2021, and the "Youth4Climate2021: Driving Ambition" event held in Milan, Italy, in September 2021; 64. Urges Parties and stakeholders to ensure meaningful youth participation in decisionmaking processes under the Convention and the Paris Agreement; 65. Invites future Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties, with the support of the secretariat, to organize annual youth platforms for discussion between Party and youth representatives, linked to the youth forums established under the Glasgow Work Programme on Action for Climate Empowerment; 66. Emphasizes the important role that indigenous peoples' knowledge and experience can play in effective action on climate change, and urges Parties to actively involve indigenous peoples in implementing climate action and to engage with the second three-year workplan of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform for 2022--2024; 67. Expresses its appreciation for the important role played by the observer organizations, including the nine non-governmental organization constituencies, in sharing their knowledge, and their calls to see ambitious action to meet the objectives of the Convention, and in collaborating with Parties to that end; 68. Encourages Parties to increase the full, meaningful and equal participation of women in climate action, and to ensure gender-responsive implementation and means of implementation, which is vital for raising ambition and achieving climate goals; 69. Calls upon Parties to strengthen their implementation of the enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan;4 70. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision; 71. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources. 