(CNN)Humans are causing alarming changes to the planet. Collectively, we are destroying ecosystems, polluting the ocean and altering our climate. Change needs to happen at every level of society, but as individuals we can play a role in making things better. On November 10, 2021, we're holding the first-ever Call to Earth Day. Celebrating a planet worth protecting, we'll partner with schools, individuals and organizations across the world to raise awareness of environmental issues and to engage with conservation education. Join CNN on November 10 for a special day of coverage on TV, digital and our social media channels. Follow our coverage here    What is Call to Earth? Call to Earth is a CNN initiative dedicated to conservation, environmentalism and sustainability. Across TV, our website and social media, we tell stories about our incredible planet and the remarkable people who are protecting it. How can I be involved? Everyone is invited. We can all play a role in creating a movement for good. To participate in Call to Earth Day, you simply have to do something positive to protect the environment on November 10, 2021. The scope is broad and we're asking you to think big, get creative, and make your event impactful. Use the form below to register your event and tell us what you plan to do, for a chance to be featured on TV and digital.   When does my event need to take place? Call to Earth Day is November 10. If you can't hold an event on that day, don't worry. Just take a picture of your favorite place in nature, then tell us what it means to you and why it's worth protecting. Be sure to use the hashtag #CallToEarth, so we can see it!  Can I share my event on social media? Please do! In the lead-up to November 10 and on the day itself, promote your event on social media using the hashtag #CallToEarth. Post as early and often as you want. The best posts will be featured on TV and digital. We encourage you to mention Call to Earth Day on November 10, but there is no obligation.   Where can I access Call to Earth resources? Episodes of Call to Earth, features on positive climate action, and interviews with climate heroes can all be found at Call to Earth. CNN will be airing a Call to Earth Day half-hour special on November 10, so make sure to tune in to CNN International at 12:30pm ET and 3:30pm ET to watch.       