(CNN)Several Broadway shows were forced to cancel performances this week due to positive Covid-19 tests among the cast or crew, a setback for the industry that comes just months after it raised the curtain on an 18-month shutdown due to the pandemic.  Since its return, Broadway has required eligible audiences, crews, performers and other staff to be vaccinated against Covid-19. This week, the Broadway League, a trade association for the industry, began enforcing a new vaccination and mask policy for children. The precautions are designed to ensure the show goes on in an industry that is a vital to New York City's economy and supports about 97,000 jobs, according to the Broadway League. The group said Broadway contributed $14.7 billion to the city's economy in the 2018-2019 season. "Aladdin" became the first Broadway show known to cancel performances due to Covid-19 when it called off multiple shows in September. Here's a look at the shows that canceled performances this week: 'Hamilton' "Hamilton," Lin-Manuel Miranda's opus on the life of Alexander Hamilton, canceled its Wednesday night show less than an hour before it was set to begin due to breakthrough Covid-19 cases, according to a post on its Twitter page. "Our highest priority is always the health and safety of every cast, crew, and audience member," the show said on Twitter. "We will have more information on upcoming performances as soon as possible. On behalf of everyone at Hamilton, we apologize for the disappointment and for any inconvenience this may cause," the show said. Hamilton was one of the first Broadway shows to reopen in September following the pandemic shutdown.  'Ain't Too Proud' The Temptations musical "Ain't Too Proud" canceled its Tuesday night Broadway performance "out of an abundance of caution ... due to a breakthrough Covid-19 case," the show said. Performances were set to resume with Wednesday's matinee, the show's Twitter account said. The show also canceled performances at The Kennedy Center in Washington, DC, from Wednesday through December 26. "Even with robust precautions in place, breakthrough COVID-19 cases have been identified within the fully vaccinated company," the show said.  'Freestyle Love Supreme' "Freestyle Love Supreme," which bills itself as a "fusion of hip hop, improv, and comedy," canceled shows on Saturday and Monday due to breakthrough Covid-19 cases, it said on Twitter. "The wellness of our cast, crew, and guests is of the utmost importance. We apologize for the inconvenience," the show said. Performances returned Tuesday with Miranda joining the cast on stage.  'Doubtfire' "Doubtfire," a musical based on the 1993 film "Mrs. Doubtfire," called off its shows Sunday due to positive Covid-19 tests in the company, it said on Twitter. "Daily testing of everyone at the Stephen Sondheim Theatre allows the opportunity to isolate anyone who tests positive for the wellness and safety of audiences, cast, crew and theatre staff," a statement from the production said. The show's performances on Tuesday and Wednesday were also canceled.  'Harry Potter and the Cursed Child' The Wednesday matinee performance of "Harry Potter and the Cursed Child" was canceled, but the evening show was expected to go on. The show said in a post on Twitter that regular testing is in place to "help us maintain a safe and healthy environment for all." "We will enchant you another time," the show said.  'Tina' "Tina," the Tina Turner musical, called off both scheduled performances Wednesday "due to the detection of a limited number of positive covid test results within the Broadway company," the production said. Shows were expected to resume Thursday. CNN's Alison Kosik contributed to this report.