(CNN)Actor Chris Noth will no longer be part of the CBS drama "The Equalizer," following allegations of sexual assault made against the star. "Chris Noth will no longer film additional episodes of The Equalizer, effective immediately," CBS and Universal Television, the show's production company, announced in a brief statement to CNN on Monday. Two women accused Noth of sexual assault in a report last week by The Hollywood Reporter. Noth has denied the allegations. "The accusations against me made by individuals I met years, even decades, ago are categorically false. These stories could've been from 30 years ago or 30 days ago — no always means no — that is a line I did not cross. The encounters were consensual. It's difficult not to question the timing of these stories coming out. I don't know for certain why they are surfacing now, but I do know this: I did not assault these women," Noth said in a statement last week. In "The Equalizer," which stars Queen Latifah, Noth, 67, portrays former CIA director William Bishop. He will be seen in one upcoming episode of the series that has already been filmed, as well as future repeats of episodes that have already aired. CNN has contacted Noth's representative for comment. Late last week, Noth was dropped by his talent agency, A3 Artists Agency, a spokesperson for the agency told CNN on Saturday. Peloton, which had just released a viral commercial featuring the actor, also stopped airing the ad. In the debut episode of HBO Max series "And Just Like That...," a spinoff of "Sex and the City," Noth's character suffered a heart attack and died. (CNN and HBO share parent company WarnerMedia.) On Monday night, "And Just Like That" stars and executive producers Sarah Jessica Parker, Cynthia Nixon and Kristin Davis released a statement via social media addressing the allegations for the first time. "We are deeply saddened to hear the allegations against Chris Noth. We support the women who have come forward and shared their painful experiences. We know it must be a very difficult thing to do and we commend them for it." 