(CNN)First-team coach Andrew Gale, Director of Cricket Martyn Moxon and all members of Yorkshire County Cricket Club's (YCCC) coaching staff have left, the team announced in a statement on Friday, amid an ongoing racism scandal's fallout. Last month former cricketer Azeem Rafiq spoke to UK lawmakers about his calls for disciplinary action to be taken by YCCC following an investigation that found he had been subjected to racial harassment and bullying. Throughout the hearing, Rafiq shared his experience at Yorkshire and broke down in tears on more than one occasion. "From early on there was a lot of "You lot sit over there near the toilets," the word 'P***' was used constantly, no one ever stamped it out," said Rafiq. "All I wanted to do was play cricket. Towards the end of my first spell but constantly throughout I knew there was something wrong. I started taking medication for my mental health. It was really tough." Asked to compare his treatment at Yorkshire to his everyday life, Rafiq said: "My every day life for as long as I've known has been cricket. It's difficult to compare. Cricket is worse than society." The club suspended Gale last month "pending a disciplinary hearing following a historical tweet," whilst Moxon has been absent from work since early November "due to a stress-related illness." "Significant change is required at Yorkshire County Cricket Club and we are committed to taking whatever action is necessary to regain trust," said Kamlesh Patel, the new chair and director of Yorkshire. "The decisions announced today were difficult to make, but are in the best interests of the Club. "Without making important changes to how we are run, we cannot move on from the past to become a culture which is progressive and inclusive. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, features, and videos "We are determined to learn from the mistakes of the past to become a Club which people can trust," added Patel. The club said a new director of cricket would be appointed in the coming days, alongside a new coaching team which is being recruited. "We welcome the announcement by Yorkshire County Cricket Club on the departure of its entire coaching staff," said Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee Chair Julian Knight. "The experience of Azeem Rafiq at YCCC demanded no less," added Knight. 