(CNN)Former police officer Kim Potter, who has said she mistook her firearm for her Taser when she fatally shot Daunte Wright during a traffic stop near Minneapolis, broke down on the stand Friday, describing the "look of fear" on another officer's face as he struggled with Wright. "It's nothing I've seen before," she said, weeping, recalling the officer reaching into the car to grab the 20-year-old Black father during the April stop. "It went chaotic," Potter cried. She said she yelled, "Taser, Taser, Taser." Then, she was told that she had shot Wright with her firearm. Potter's testimony could be the centerpiece of her defense against first- and second-degree manslaughter charges in the incident, which set off days of unrest in the city of Brooklyn Center after a summer of coast-to-coast protests over how police treat people of color. The state, which rested its case Thursday, presented more than two dozen witnesses over six days, including a policing expert who testified that Potter, who is White, was not justified in using deadly force when she fatally shot Wright. Minutes before she cried while recounting the tense episode, Potter testified Friday that she had gotten a new Taser model days before the shooting. Potter was issued the new Taser on March 26, she said. She shot Wright on April 11. She told jurors she had never deployed the device while on duty. "I would take my Taser out on rare occasions, but I don't believe I ever deployed it," she said. Potter, wearing a light yellow sweater and dark pants, opened her testimony by removing her mask and giving her age, 49, and saying she has been married to a retired police officer for 25 years. They met in high school; she was 15. Potter told jurors they have two sons, one an active duty Marine and the other a college student who planned to be home for the holidays. FOLLOW LIVE UPDATES Potter's husband, Jeff Potter, sat in the courtroom as she testified, as did Wright's father, Arbuey Wright, and mother, Katie Bryant. Potter had other family members in the courtroom. The ex-officer's former police chief, a law enforcement expert and other defense witnesses were called to the stand Thursday, with Potter's former boss testifying he concluded there was "no violation ... of policy, procedure, law," after reviewing body camera and other video following the April 11 shooting. The judge on Thursday denied a defense request for a judgment of acquittal on grounds the state had presented conflicting evidence on whether the use of a Taser during Potter's encounter with Wright would have been unreasonable. Chu also told jurors the defense had two witnesses set to testify on Friday. "We're almost done," she said. Prosecutors say Potter acted recklessly Video of the shooting shows that after officers pulled over Wright and tried to arrest him on an outstanding warrant, he got back into his vehicle and attempted to flee. At that point, Potter pulled out her firearm and shot him -- later saying she instead meant to use her Taser. "I grabbed the wrong f**king gun, and I shot him," Potter said just after the shooting. Her defense has characterized the killing as an accident while also arguing she was within her rights to use deadly force to protect another officer who was reaching into Wright's car when Potter opened fire. Prosecutors sought to counter that claim with expert testimony as they argued Potter was negligent and acted recklessly in mistaking her gun for her Taser. "The use of deadly force was not appropriate, and the evidence suggests that a reasonable officer in Officer Potter's position could not have believed it was proportional to the threat at the time," University of South Carolina School of Law associate professor Seth Stoughton testified Wednesday for the state, calling Potter's actions "excessive and inappropriate." A Taser would have been effective in incapacitating Wright, the first defense witness testified Thursday. Still, deadly force is warranted if an officer is partly inside a vehicle as a suspect is attempting to drive away, said Stephen Ijames, a law enforcement expert and former assistant police chief from Missouri. 