Amy Lauren Fairchild, dean of The Ohio State University College of Public Health, is a historian who works at the intersection of history, public health ethics, and public health policy and politics. The views expressed in this commentary are her own. Read more opinion articles on CNN. (CNN)In times of public health crisis, leadership is critical -- not just from our elected officials, but also from the heads of the health institutions that help shape our understanding of, and response to, public health threats. So it's concerning that soon two key institutions -- the US Food and Drug Administration and the National Institutes of Health -- could both be without their top leaders.  At the end of this year, the NIH director Francis Collins will step down after ensuring stability at the agency under both Democratic and Republican presidents for 12 years. His successor, once nominated, must be confirmed by the US Senate at a moment in which the nation is politically and ideologically fractured, particularly on matters of population health.  Meanwhile, the FDA has been without a commissioner since the start of the President Joe Biden's administration. Dr. Janet Woodstock has served as acting commissioner since January 20, but, per the Federal Vaccines Reform Act of 1998, her term limit is 300 days. This gives the administration until mid-November to appoint a permanent commissioner before the institution will be without a top leader.  The US has made great strides in addressing the Covid-19 pandemic. But we can blow it all, in both the short and long term, if the Biden administration fails to move quickly to fill this key position at the FDA and prioritize stable leadership across the NIH to create a unified national approach capable of both crisis response and routine public health readiness.  With a national decline in new daily cases and the relative stabilization in hospitalizations and deaths, the immediate crisis of the fall is managed. It is also a moment of peril. In response to different regional conditions as we move indoors and the pandemic intersects with seasonal influenza, Covid-19 control and mitigation strategies will likely differ for both sound scientific reason and deeply problematic political interference with protective public health measures, sowing confusion and exasperation. And there is the threat of failing to address the underlying structural conditions that create profound health disparities both nationally and globally. This is where having a reliable leader to make decisions, implement a plan of action, communicate it publicly and see the plan through is key.  The FDA historically has been criticized for moving too slowly in approving new therapies, which not only costs lives but increases prices. In fact, because it permitted emergency use authorization, the FDA approved Covid-19 vaccinations at an unprecedented pace -- on average, 21 days for the three major vaccines now approved compared with 12 months for the 21 vaccines approved between 2010 and 2020. Still, there remain problems getting people to accept the vaccines are safe and effective.  The FDA could have benefited from a trusted individual -- similar to Dr. Anthony Fauci, President Biden's chief medical adviser, or Rochelle P. Walensky, director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention -- providing clear, reassuring messages the FDA's authorization was based on a considerable and thorough vetting of safety and efficacy evidence. After the FDA issued emergency use authorization for the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for kids 5-11 on Friday, a permanent leader who can instill trust in parents is desperately needed.  Even with leadership in place, building and sustaining public trust requires cohesive federal messaging. When it originally approved booster shots for the Pfizer vaccine, the FDA recommended making them available to individuals 65 and older, those with an underlying medical condition or those who work in a high exposure setting, like health care workers or teachers. When the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization practices, however, recommended vaccination only for the first two categories, CDC director Rochelle Walensky overrode her own committee to ensure alignment with the FDA on an important underlying ethical question: In the face of disagreement about risk, how widely should the nation cast the booster access net?  For a decade now, differences in the assessment of tradeoffs like this have been a point of tension between the two agencies over major public health questions, including the place of e-cigarettes in combustible tobacco control. Scientific disagreements cannot and must not be papered over, but public trust erodes when we get mixed guidance.  As a consequence, filling leadership gaps to help establish a clear vision and ensure institutional stability will only go so far. Protecting public health demands a multi-agency, multi-sectoral response. Federal government coordination is key, but best practices, policies and the resources to support them must extend to state and local governments, the private sector, and nongovernmental organizations.  The nation has a model in the National Incident Management System (NIMS), which coordinates emergency responses requiring access to resources like food, energy, housing or health care, managed by disparate agencies. While we have in the CDC a lead public health agency and hub for disease reporting and policy guidance, it is only one of the agencies contributing to public health goals.  We do not have a comprehensive national public health management system which can address both acute crises and chronic structural deficits that have put us at the start of what could, without bold action, be the fifth consecutive decade in which the US loses ground in life expectancy relative to peer nations. And it is not simply that life expectancy in other industrialized democracies has outpaced gains in the US. Life expectancy in this country has slowly eroded since 2014.  Successfully managing Covid-19 and other public health threats requires sustained effort. It requires not only investment in emergency preparedness and response systems, but in dismantling systems that create racial, ethnic, gender and social class disparities. It will require cooperation and coordination across agencies not accustomed to the level of interconnectedness required to better prevent and mitigate death and disease. And this requires leadership with the capacity to move beyond stewardship to exercising vested authority.  Noisy dissent will always exist at the fringes. This country's vast middle ground will listen and do what is necessary when called on to act, and when equipped with clear, trusted guidance. Most of us can save all of us.  But only if this nation can get its act together, fill key leadership positions, and create a structure for those leaders to call public health shots in a coordinated fashion. Anything less risks not being up to the challenge of responding to acute crises and addressing historically-rooted structural, social and economic conditions that hold so many of us back.  