(CNN)For Byron Kennedy, Sunday was more than just an NFL game. During the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' 38-3 victory over the Chicago Bears -- where he was sitting in the front row -- he was handed a ball by Mike Evans after the wide receiver scored the Buccaneers' third touchdown in the first quarter. However, this game ball was a little different to the others, as it just so happened to be the one used by Tom Brady to score his historic 600th touchdown. The 44-year-old became the first player in NFL history to achieve the feat, and now Kennedy had the ball to commemorate that moment. Because it was an achievement that both Brady and the NFL would like to celebrate and immortalize, they wanted the game ball back. And after some bartering, Kennedy gave it up. But at a price. According to ESPN, Kennedy received two signed Brady jerseys, a helmet, a signed Evans jersey, a pair of his game cleats, $1,000 credit at the team store and two season tickets for the remainder of the 2021 season and for the 2022 season. When asked during an interview on NFL Network if he'd like to renegotiate with the Bucs and Brady, Kennedy said he wouldn't but had one further request. "A round of golf with Tom, as a repayment," he said. "I think that would be pretty cool." Brady is a keen golfer, and someone who often spends his down time on the course. In 2020, he competed in "The Match: Champions for Charity" -- a competition which pitted four of the greatest athletes in the world against each other to raise money for charity. Paired with Phil Mickelson, Brady faced off against Tiger Woods and Peyton Manning with the goal of raising more than $10 million for Covid-19-related causes which provided relief for frontline workers, small businesses, and those in desperate need of food as a result of the pandemic. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and features Although he arguably provided the moment of the day -- holing-out from the fairway on the Par-5 7th hole -- Brady and Mickleson lost to Woods and Manning by a single hole, with the event raising a total of $20 million for charity. He made his second appearance during the fourth edition of "The Match" in July, where he and Mickleson yet again lost, this time to Bryson DeChambeau and Aaron Rodgers. 